PD-348   SCALE CLI - Create Auth Api_key Namespace Content (#2095)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALECLIReference/Auth/CLIApiKey.md

{{< toc >}}

## API_Key Namespace

The *api_key* namespace has five commands and is based on API key management functions found in the SCALE API and web UI.
It provides access to API kay creation and management methods through the **api_key** commands.

## API_Key Commands

The following **api_key** commands allow you to create, view, and delete API keys.

You can enter commands from the main CLI prompt or from the snapshot namespace prompt.

{{< include file="/_includes/CLIGuideWIP.md" type="page" >}}

### Interactive Argument Editor (TUI)

{{< include file="/_includes/CLI/HintInteractiveArgsEditor.md" type="page" >}}

### Create Command

The `create` command lets you create simple or complex API keys.

{{< expand "Creating a Simple API Key" "v" >}}

#### Description
The `create` command requires the `name` property.

> Enter the command, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

Reviewer: Include how they enter the property argument, for example:
Enter a property argument using the `=` delimiter to separate property and value. 

Or if it does require the value in double quotes:
Enter a property argument using the `=` delimiter to separate property and the value double-quoted.

The command returns the API key when successful.

#### Usage

From the CLI prompt, enter:

<code>auth api_key create name=<i>name</i></code>

Where *name* is the name you want to assign to the key.

{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
auth api_key create name=apikey3
API Key: 3-xTqwhyf3SrUgUlotMQEEGuUr6oRvqg89SBDfXob6xtWSgLbRiDBr6SVRWxswSXx3
```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

{{< expand "Creating a Complex API Key" "v" >}}

#### Description

> The `create` command requires the `name` property. You can also specify an HTTP method and a WebSocket API method.

Reviewer: are the HTTP method and WebSocket API method properties? What are they? How do you enter them? 
When there is one required and several optional properties, say something like this:

```suggestion
The `create` command has one required property, `name`, and two optional properties that allow you to specify an HTTP method and a WebSocket API method.
```
As I'm not sure if those are properties, we need to be clear about them.
Include instructions for how to enter the command string per previous comment.
If there are a few optional properties you can include a table. See the example in my PR for CLISnapshot.md or the one for CLISnapshotTask.md that is in branch PD-473.

API Key: 3-xTqwhyf3SrUgUlotMQEEGuUr6oRvqg89SBDfXob6xtWSgLbRiDBr6SVRWxswSXx3
```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Delete Command

The `delete` command deletes an API key.

{{< expand "Deleting an API Key" "v" >}}

#### Description
The `delete` command requires the `id` property.
Enter the command, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.
The command returns nothing when successful.

#### Usage

From the CLI prompt, enter:

<code>auth api_key delete id=<i>number</i></code>

Where *number* is the list number of the API key you want to delete. For example, the first API key created on the system would be "1".
{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
auth api_key delete id=1
```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Get_Instance Command

The `get_instance` command returns a table of properties for the specified API key.

{{< expand "Viewing API Key Instances" "v" >}}

#### Description
The `get_instance` command requires the `id` property.
Enter the command, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.
The command returns a table of properties for the specified API key when successful.

#### Usage

From the CLI prompt, enter:

<code>auth api_key get_instance id=<i>number</i></code>

> Where *number* is the list number of the API key you want to delete. For example, the first API key created on the system would be "1".

Reviewer: the second sentence is better as part of the Description in a line that explains the required id property.

| created_at | 2023-08-22T19:58:59+00:00 |
|  allowlist | <list>                    |
+------------+---------------------------+
```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Query Command

The `query` command returns a table of properties for all API keys.

{{< expand "Running an API Key Query" "v" >}}

#### Description
The `query` command has no requirements.
Enter the command, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.
The command returns a table of properties for all API keys when successful.

#### Usage

From the CLI prompt, enter:

`auth api_key query`

{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
auth api_key query
+----+---------+---------------------------+-----------+
| id | name    | created_at                | allowlist |
+----+---------+---------------------------+-----------+
| 2  | apikey2 | 2023-08-22T19:58:59+00:00 | <list>    |
| 3  | apikey3 | 2023-08-22T20:14:59+00:00 | <list>    |
| 4  | apikey4 | 2023-08-22T20:17:44+00:00 | <list>    |
+----+---------+---------------------------+-----------+
```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Update Command

The update command allows you to update existing API keys.

{{< expand "Updating API Keys" "v" >}}

#### Description

> The `update` command has two configurable properties and one argument. After specifying the `id` of the API key you want to update, you must include at least one of the configurable properties or arguments.

Reviewer: What are the configurable properties for id in this instance? You can say something like this and include a table for the additional required properties for the update command, or if they are the same properties in the create command:
```suggestion
The `update` command has two configurable properties and one argument. 
Enter the `id` of the API key you want to update, and then you must include at least one of the configurable properties or arguments described in the <code>[create](#create-command)</code> command section.
```
If the update command uses different optional/required properties, what are they? Any specifics on how to enter the property argument? If the same as described in create then the pointer to that section covers it. :-)

Enter the command, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.
The command returns a table of properties for all API keys when successful.

#### Usage

From the CLI prompt, enter:

<code>auth api_key update id=<i>number</i> name=<i>name</i> allowlist=[{"method":"<i>METHOD</i>","resource":"<i>api.resource</i>"}] reset=<i>true/false</i></code>

Where 

> * *number* is the list number of the API key you want to update. For example, the first API key created on the system would be "1".

Reviewer: don't use double quotes as emphasis. use italics in this instance or no emphasis for 1. Also this sentence should be in the description where you explain the properties.

* *name* is the new name you want to assign to the key.

> * *METHOD* is the HTTP method you want the key to use. Options are GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, CALL, and SUBSCRIBE.

Reviewer: The second sentence should be included in the Description section where you talk about the properties and options.

> * *api.resource* is the WebSocket API resource you want to use. Append "/api/docs/" to the end of your TrueNAS web UI address to see our full list of WebSocket API resources.

Reviewer: The "append" sentence belongs in the Description section where you explain the properties. These appear to be the same as the create command so you only have to do this once, probably in a table, but you can use sentences to explain them, and the syntax for how to enter the property arguments for each.
